mod_sms_clickatell
------------------

This module provides and SMS gateway component which uses the Clickatell
HTTP API to deliver text messages. See clickatell.com for details on their
services. Note that at present, this is entirely one way: replies will
either go nowhere or as sms to the source number you specify.

Installation
------------

Copy in to Prosody's modules directory (e.g. /usr/lib/prosody/modules)

Configuration
-------------

In prosody.cfg.lua:

Component "sms.example.com" "sms_clickatell"
	clickatell_api_id = <api id>
	sms_source_number = <source number>
	sms_message_prefix = "some text"

The clickatell_api_id is a number which is your Clickatell HTTP API ID. In
future this will likely be migrated out of config in to component
registration.

The sms_source_number is the mobile number you want messages to 'originate'
from i.e. where your recipients see messages coming from. This should really
be per-user configurable, so again will be moved tp component registration
in future. The number should be in international format without leading
plus sign, or you can use some other format if clickatell supports it.

The sms_message_prefix is a piece of text you want prefixing to all messages
sent through the gateway. For example, I use the prefix "[Via XMPP] " to
indicate to recipients that I've sent the message via the internet rather
than the mobile network. Since my primary use case for this component is to
be able to send messages to people only reachable via mobile when I myself
only have internet access and no mobile reception, this option allows me to
give a hint to my recipients that any reply they send may not reach me in a
timely manner.

Usage
-----

Once you;ve installed and configured, you should be able to use service
discovery in your XMPP client to find the component service. Once found, you
need to register with the service, supplying your Clickatell username and
password (in future service registration will also include the API ID and
the source number).

To send text messages to a target number, you need to add a contact in the
form of <number>@sms.example.com, where <number> is the mobile number of the
recipient, in international format without leading plus sign, and
sms.example.com is the name for the component you configured above. For
example:

447999000001@sms.yourdomain.com

You should then be able to send messages to this contact which get sent as
text messages to the number by the component. That is all :-)

--
Phil Stewart
March 2011

Email: phil.stewart@lichp.co.uk
